Tableau Graphical Data Representation for MCH

Compiled by DRI Marisa Long

1.  Download these four files/folders from box and place somewhere
    convenient.

They can be found here: <https://app.box.com/folder/133174409935>

![Graphical user interface, text Description automatically
generated](media/image1.png){width="6.069444444444445in"
height="1.375in"}

2.  Open Tableau Public on your desktop. You may need to login using the
    Tulane credentials, which are:

Username: ncitech@wave.tulane.edu

Password: Newcomb12!

Or if you are working on a personal project, create your own login with
Tableau Public.

To start a new viz, you'll need to open either one of the geospatial
files or the excel sheets. Click on the appropriate one and then select
one of these files that you just downloaded. Click open.

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image2.png){width="1.593176946631671in"
height="3.354055118110236in"}

3.  Tableau will take you to the data source page. Add all the other
    data sources you just downloaded by clicking on the "Add" button by
    "Connections." Once all four are added, click the "New Sheet"
    button.

> ![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
> generated](media/image3.png){width="4.092584208223972in"
> height="2.328312554680665in"}

4.  Next, you going to begin moving over data over to form our
    visualizations. For this tutorial, I'm going to explain using the
    data from "Birth outcomes by year" in "House districts" but this
    could be done with the parish or senate data as well.

5.  To create a pie graph, you're going to move the names of the
    districts (here represented by Nameslad) to either the rows or
    columns.

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image4.png){width="3.945003280839895in"
height="2.3779604111986004in"}

Then, drag race over under marks and drop it on top of the square
labeled "colors."

![Graphical user interface Description automatically
generated](media/image5.png){width="3.949374453193351in"
height="2.6928313648293964in"}

Next, drag the information that you want to be represented in the pie
graph over under marks to the "size" box.

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image6.png){width="4.275660542432196in"
height="2.680967847769029in"}

Next, under marks, click on the single select and change it to pie.

We want to get rid of the "total" category, so right click on race and
select filter. Then, unselect "total" or any other data you don't want
to appear in your pie chart.

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image7.png){width="2.6137707786526683in"
height="2.7524617235345583in"}![Graphical user interface, text,
application Description automatically
generated](media/image8.png){width="3.054047462817148in"
height="2.5627799650043745in"}

Here is the result:

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image9.png){width="4.960830052493439in"
height="3.298740157480315in"}

Here is the result

6.  For the bar graphs, drag the names (namelsad) into the columns box
    and number of births (nbirth) into the rows.

![Graphical user interface, chart Description automatically
generated](media/image10.png){width="4.341581364829397in"
height="2.7427110673665793in"}

To separate by race again, drag rage under marks on top of the box
"color." Use the same steps above to get rid of the total category by
right clicking on race, going to filter, and deselecting "total."

![Graphical user interface, chart, bar chart Description automatically
generated](media/image11.png){width="4.079128390201225in"
height="2.501953193350831in"}

Drag over other data you would like to display into rows. Here, I moved
over Nlbw and Nptb.

![Graphical user interface Description automatically
generated](media/image12.png){width="3.308112423447069in"
height="2.203287401574803in"}

Put them side-by-side by clicking on the "Show me" button in the
upper-right-hand corner and selecting the side-by-side bars. You may
have to re-drag race to color.

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image13.png){width="3.98174321959755in"
height="2.531129702537183in"}

7.  For the line and area graphs, once again drag the names (namelsad)
    into the columns box and number of births (nbirth) into the rows.

Also drag race over color and remove the total from the filter.

![Graphical user interface, chart, application, bar chart Description
automatically generated](media/image14.png){width="3.9127515310586176in"
height="2.9709317585301838in"}

Then, change this to an area graph or line graph by going to the
single-select drop down under marks and changing it to be "area" or
"line."

![Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically
generated](media/image15.png){width="3.3883070866141733in"
height="2.4062062554680663in"}

![Graphical user interface, application Description automatically
generated](media/image16.png){width="4.0753423009623795in"
height="3.1035290901137356in"}
